- [Instructor] If we think of GitOps as a pattern,
there are four principles that make up that pattern.
Let's take a look at them as a group,
and then we'll dive into each one
to see what they're all about.
The first principle requires us
to describe our system declaratively.
So we store data that describes the desired state
of the system, sort of like a blueprint.
The second principle requires that we store
that description of our system within Git.
So we agree to keep the official blueprints,
describing the desired system state version within Git.
If we want to change the blueprint,
it has to be done via a git commit.
When we change the blueprint,
the changes can only be applied
to the running system through automation.
Changed delivery is 100% automated.
There are no manual changes in GitOps.
The final principle ensures
that our running system stays aligned
to the desired state through automation.
So if the running system drifts away
from what we have described in Git,
an operator within the system will heal it
by returning it back to the desired state.
So that's great from a high level,
but you have to be asking, how does it really work?
So let's invest some time
in exploring each of these principles,
then you'll know
how to recognize the pattern when it appears in a workflow
or toll that you use in your day to day work.